Friends, delegates and fellow Americans: I humbly and gratefully accept your nomination for the presidency of the United States. Who would have believed that when we started this journey on June 16, last year, we — I say we because we are a team — would have received almost 14 million votes, the most in the history of the Republican party? And that the Republican Party would get 60 percent more votes than it received eight years ago. Who would have believed it? The Democrats on the other hand, received 20 percent fewer votes than they got four years ago, not so good. Together, we will lead our party back to the White House, and we will lead our country back to safety, prosperity, and peace. We will be a country of generosity and warmth. But we will also be a country of law and order. Our convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation. The attacks on our police, and the terrorism in our cities, threaten our very way of life. Any politician who does not grasp this danger is not fit to lead our country. Americans watching this address tonight have seen the recent images of violence in our streets and the chaos in our communities. Many have witnessed this violence personally. Some have even been its victims. I have a message for all of you: The crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon — and I mean very soon come to an end. Beginning on January 20th 2017, safety will be restored. The most basic duty of government is to defend the lives of its citizens. Any government that fails to do so is a government unworthy to lead. It is finally time for a straightforward assessment of the state of our nation. I will present the facts plainly and honestly. We cannot afford to be so politically correct anymore. So if you want to hear the corporate spin, the carefully-crafted lies, and the media myths — the Democrats are holding their convention next week. Go there. But here, at our convention, there will be no lies. We will honor the American people with the truth, and nothing else. These are the facts: Decades of progress made in bringing down crime are now being reversed by this administration's rollback of criminal enforcement. Homicides last year increased by 17% in America's fifty largest cities. That's the largest increase in 25 years. In our nation's capital, killings have risen by 50 percent. They are up nearly 60 percent in nearby Baltimore. In the president's hometown of Chicago, more than 2,000 have been the victims of shootings this year alone. And almost 4,000 have been killed in the Chicago area since he took office. The number of police officers killed in the line of duty has risen by almost 50 percent compared to this point last year. Nearly 180,000 illegal immigrants with criminal records, ordered deported from our country, are tonight roaming free to threaten peaceful citizens. The number of new illegal immigrant families who have crossed the border so far this year already exceeds the entire total of 2015. They are being released by the tens of thousands into our communities with no regard for the impact on public safety or resources. One such border-crosser was released and made his way to Nebraska. There, he ended the life of an innocent young girl named Sarah Root. She was 21 years old and was killed the day after graduating from college with a 4.0 grade point average. Her killer was then released a second time, and he is now a fugitive from the law. I've met Sarah's beautiful family. But to this administration, their amazing daughter was just one more American life that wasn't worth protecting. One more child to sacrifice on the altar of open borders. What about our economy? Again, I will tell you the plain facts that have been edited out of your nightly news and your morning newspaper: Nearly four in 10 African-American children are living in poverty, while 58% of African-American youth are now not employed. 2 million more Latinos are in poverty today than when the president took his oath of office eight years ago. Another 14 million people have left the workforce entirely. Household incomes are down more than $4,000 since the year 2000. That is 16 years ago. Our trade deficit in goods reached — think of this — our trade deficit is $800 hundred billion dollars. Think of that. $800 billion last year alone. We will fix that. The budget is no better. President Obama has almost doubled our national debt to more than $19 trillion, and growing. Yet, what do we have to show for it? Our roads and bridges are falling apart, our airports are in third world condition, and 43 million Americans are on food stamps. Now let us consider the state of affairs abroad. Not only have our citizens endured domestic disaster, but they have lived through one international humiliation after another. One after another. We all remember the images of our sailors being forced to their knees by their Iranian captors at gunpoint. This was just prior to the signing of the Iran deal, which gave back to Iran $150 billion and gave us absolutely nothing. It will go down in history as one of the worst deals ever negotiated. Another humiliation came when President Obama drew a red line in Syria and the whole world knew it meant absolutely nothing. In Libya, our consulate, the symbol of American prestige around the globe was brought down in flames. America is far less safe and the world is far less stable than when Obama made the decision to put Hillary Clinton in charge of America's foreign policy. I am certain it is a decision he truly regrets. Her bad instincts and her bad judgment, something pointed out by Bernie Sanders are what caused the disasters unfolding today. Let's review the record. In 2009, pre-Hillary, ISIS was not even on the map. Libya was stable. Egypt was peaceful. Iraq had seen a big reduction in violence. Iran was being choked by sanctions. Syria was somewhat under control. After four years of Hillary Clinton, what do we have? ISIS has spread across the region and the entire world. Libya is in ruins, and our ambassador and his staff were left helpless to die at the hands of savage killers. Egypt was turned over to the radical Muslim Brotherhood, forcing the military to retake control. Iraq is in chaos. Iran is on the path to nuclear weapons. Syria is engulfed in a civil war and a refugee crisis that now threatens the West. After 15 years of wars in the Middle East, after trillions of dollars spent and thousands of lives lost, the situation is worse than it has ever been before. This is the legacy of Hillary Clinton: Death, destruction and terrorism and weakness. But Hillary Clinton's legacy does not have to be America's legacy. The problems we face now — poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad — will last only as long as we continue relying on the same politicians who created them. A change in leadership is required to produce a change in outcomes. Tonight, I will share with you for action for America. The most important difference between our plan and that of our opponents, is that our plan will put America first. Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo. As long as we are led by politicians who will not put America first, then we can be assured that other nations will not treat America with respect. The respect that we deserve. The American people will come first once again. First, my plan will begin with safety at home which means safe neighborhoods, secure borders, and protection from terrorism. There can be no prosperity without law and order. On the economy, I will outline reforms to add millions of new jobs and trillions in new wealth that can be used to rebuild America. A number of these reforms that I will outline tonight will be opposed by some of our nation's most powerful special interests. That is because these interests have rigged our political and economic system for their exclusive benefit. Believe me. It is for their benefit. For their benefit. Big business, elite media and major donors are lining up behind the campaign of my opponent because they know she will keep our rigged system in place. They are throwing money at her because they have total control over every single thing she does. She is their puppet, and they pull the strings. That is why Hillary Clinton's message is that things will never change. Never ever. My message is that things have to change and they have to change right now. Every day I wake up determined to deliver a better life for the people all across this nation that had been ignored, neglected and abandoned. I have visited the laid-off factory workers, and the communities crushed by our horrible and unfair trade deals. These are the forgotten men and women of our country, and they are forgotten, but they will not be forgotten long. These are people who work hard but no longer have a voice. I am your voice. I have embraced crying mothers who have lost their children because our politicians put their personal agendas before the national good. I have no patience for injustice. No tolerance for government incompetence. When innocent people suffer, because our political system lacks the will, or the courage, or the basic decency to enforce our laws, or worse still, has sold out to some corporate lobbyist for cash I am not able to look the other way. And I won't look the other way. And when a Secretary of State illegally stores her emails on a private server, deletes 33,000 of them so the authorities can't see her crime, puts our country at risk, lies about it in every different form and faces no no consequence — I know that corruption has reached a level like never ever before in our country. When the FBI director says that the Secretary of State was 'extremely careless' and 'negligent' in handling our classified secrets, I also know that these terms are minor compared to what she actually did. They were just used to save her from facing justice for her terrible, terrible crimes. In fact, her single greatest accomplishment may be committing such an egregious crime and getting away with it, especially when others who have been far less have paid so dearly. When that same Secretary of State rakes in millions of dollars trading access and favors to special interests and foreign powers, I know the time for action has come. I have joined the political arena so that the powerful can no longer beat up on people that cannot defend themselves. Nobody knows the system better than me, which is why I alone can fix it. I have seen firsthand how the system is rigged against our citizens, just like it was rigged against Bernie Sanders. He never had a chance. But his supporters will join our movement, because we will fix his biggest issue: Trade deals that strip our country of jobs and the distribution of wealth in the country. Millions of Democrats will join our movement, because we are going to fix the system so it works fairly and justly for each and every American. In this cause, I am proud to have at my side the next Vice President of the United States: Governor Mike Pence of Indiana. And a great guy. We will bring the same economic success to America that Mike brought Indiana, which is amazing. He is a man of character and accomplishment. He is the right man for the job. The first task for our new administration will be to liberate our citizens from the crime and terrorism and lawlessness that threatens their — our communities. America was shocked to its core when our police officers in Dallas were so brutally executed. Immediately after Dallas, we have seen continued threats and violence against our law enforcement officials. Law officers have been shot or killed in recent days in Georgia, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, Michigan and Tennessee. On Sunday, more police were gunned down in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Three were killed, and three were very badly injured. An attack on law enforcement is an attack on all Americans. I have a message to every last person threatening the peace on our streets and the safety of our police: When I take the oath of office next year, I will restore law and order to our country. I will work with, and appoint, the best prosecutors and law enforcement officials in the country to get the job properly done. In this race for the White House, I am the law and order candidate. The irresponsible rhetoric of our president, who has used the pulpit of the presidency to divide us by race and color, has made America a more dangerous environment than frankly, I have ever seen and anybody in this room has ever watched or seeing. This administration has failed America's inner cities. Remember, it has failed America's inner cities. It's failed them on education. It's failed them on jobs. It's failed them on crime. It's failed them in every way and on every single level. When I am president, I will work to ensure that all of our kids are treated equally, and protected equally. Every action I take, I will ask myself: Does this make life better for young Americans in Baltimore, Chicago, Detroit, and Ferguson who have really come in every way, have the same right to live out their dreams as any other child in America? To make life safe in America, we must also address the growing threats from outside the country. We are going to defeat the barbarians of ISIS. And we are going to defeat them bad. Once again, France is the victim of brutal Islamic terrorism. Men, women and children viciously mowed down. Lives ruined. Families ripped apart. A nation in mourning. The damage and devastation that can be inflicted by Islamic radicals has been proven over and over. At the World Trade Center, at an office party in San Bernardino, at the Boston Marathon, and a military recruiting center in Chattanooga, Tennessee. And many other locations. Only weeks ago, in Orlando, Florida, 49 wonderful Americans were savagely murdered by an Islamic terrorist. This time, the terrorist targeted LGBTQ community. No good. And we're going to stop it. As your president, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology. Believe me. And I have to say as a Republican, it is so nice to hear you cheering for what I just said. Thank you. To protect us from terrorism, we need to focus on three things. We must have the best, absolutely the best, gathering of intelligence anywhere in the world. The best. We must abandon the failed policy of nation- building and regime change that Hillary Clinton pushed in Iraq, Libya, in Egypt, and Syria. Instead, we must work with all of our allies who share our goal of destroying ISIS and stamping out Islamic terrorism and doing it now, doing it quickly. We're going to win. We're going to win fast. This includes working with our greatest ally in the region, the state of Israel. Recently I have said that NATO was obsolete. Because it did not properly cover terror. And also that many of the member countries were not paying their fair share. As usual, the United States has been picking up the cost. Shortly thereafter, it was announced that NATO will be setting up a new program in order to combat terrorism. A true step in the right direction. Lastly, and very importantly, we must immediately suspend immigration from any nation that has been compromised by terrorism until such time as proven vetting mechanisms have been put in place. We don't want them in our country. My opponent has called for a radical 550 percent increase — think of this, this is not believable, but this is what is happening — a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees on top of existing massive refugee flows coming into our country already under the leadership of president Obama. She proposes this despite the fact that there's no way to screen these refugees in order to find out who they are or where they come from. I only want to admit individuals into our country who will support our values and love our people. Anyone who endorses violence, hatred or oppression is not welcome in our country and never ever will be. Decades of record immigration have produced lower wages and higher unemployment for our citizens, especially for African-American and Latino workers. We are going to have an immigration system that works, but one that works for the American people. On Monday, we heard from three parents whose children were killed by illegal immigrants Mary Ann Mendoza, Sabine Durden, and my friend Jamiel Shaw. They are just three brave representatives of many thousands who have suffered so greatly. Of all my travels in this country, nothing has affected me more, nothing even close than the time I have spent with the mothers and fathers who have lost their children to violence spilling across our borders, which we can solve. We have to solve it. These families have no special interests to represent them. There are no demonstrators to protect them and none too protest on their behalf. My opponent will never meet with them, or share in their pain. Believe me. Instead, my opponent wants sanctuary cities. But where was sanctuary for Kate Steinle? Where was sanctuary for the children of Mary Ann, Sabine and Jamiel? Is so sad to even be talking about this. We can solve it so quickly. Where was sanctuary for all the other Americans who have been so brutally murdered, and who have suffered so horribly? These wounded American families have been alone. But they are not alone any longer. Tonight, this candidate and this whole nation stand in their corner to support them, to send them our love, and to pledge in their honor that we will save countless more families from suffering the same awful fate. We are going to build a great border wall to stop illegal immigration, to stop the gangs and the violence, and to stop the drugs from pouring into our communities. I have been honored to receive the endorsement of America's Border Patrol agents, and will work directly with them to protect the integrity of our lawful, lawful, immigration system. By ending catch-and-release on the border, we will stop the cycle of human smuggling and violence. Illegal border crossings will go down. We will stop it. It will not be happening very much anymore. Believe me. Peace will be restored by enforcing the rules for the millions who overstay their visas, our laws will finally receive the respect they deserve. Tonight, I want every American whose demands for immigration security have been denied and every politician who has denied them to listen very closely to the words I am about to say: On on January 20 of 2017, the day I take the oath of office, Americans will finally wake up in a country where the laws of the United States are enforced. We are going to be considerate and compassionate to everyone. But my greatest compassion will be for our own struggling citizens. My plan is the exact opposite of the radical and dangerous immigration policy of Hillary Clinton. Americans want relief from uncontrolled immigration. Which is what we have now. Communities want relief. Yet Hillary Clinton is proposing mass amnesty, mass immigration, and mass lawlessness. Her plan will overwhelm your schools and hospitals, further reduce your jobs and wages, and make it harder for recent immigrants to escape from the tremendous cycle of poverty they are going through right now and make it almost impossible for them to join the middle class. I have a different vision for our workers. It begins with a new, fair trade policy that protects our jobs and stands up to countries that cheat — of which there are many. It's been a signature message of my campaign from day one, and it will be a signature feature of my presidency from the moment I take the oath of office. I have made billions of dollars in business making deals. Now I'm going to make our country rich again. Using the greatest businesspeople of the world, I'm going to turn our bad trade agreements into great trade agreements. America has lost nearly-one third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997, following the enactment of disastrous trade deals supported by bill and Hillary Clinton. Remember, it was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA, one of the worst economic deals ever made by our country. Or frankly, any other country. Never ever again. I am going to bring our jobs back our jobs to Ohio and Pennsylvania and New York and Michigan and all of America and I am not going to let companies move to other countries, firing their employees along the way, without consequences. Not going to happen anymore. My opponent, on the other hand, has supported virtually every trade agreement that has been destroying our middle class. She supported NAFTA, and she supported China's entrance into the world trade organization. Another one of her husband's colossal mistakes and disasters. She supported the job killing trade deal with South Korea. She she supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership which will not only destroy our manufacturing but it will make America subject to the rulings of foreign governments. And it is not going to happen. I pledge to never sign any trade agreement that hurts our workers, or that diminishes our freedom and Independence. We will never ever sign bad trade deals. America first again. American first. Instead, I will make individual deals with individual countries. No longer will we enter into these massive transactions with many countries that are thousands of pages long and which no one from our country even reads or understands. We are going to enforce all trade violations against any country that cheats. This includes stopping China's outrageous theft of intellectual property, along with their illegal product dumping, and their devastating currency manipulation. They are the greatest that ever came about, they are the greatest currently manipulators ever. Our horrible trade agreements with China, and many others, will be totally renegotiated. That includes renegotiating NAFTA to get a much better deal for America and will walk away if we don't get that kind of a deal. Our country is going to start building and making things again. Next comes the reform of our tax laws, regulations and energy rules. While Hillary Clinton plans a massive, and I mean massive, tax increase, I have proposed the largest tax reduction of any candidate who has run for president this year, Democrat or Republican. Middle-income Americans will experience profound relief, and taxes will be greatly simplified for everyone. I mean everyone. America is one of the highest-taxed nations in the world. Reducing taxes will cause new companies and new jobs to come roaring back into our country. Believe me. It will happen and it will happen fast. Then we are going to deal with the issue of regulation, one of the greatest job killers of them all. Excessive regulation is costing our country as much as $2 trillion a year, and we will end and it very quickly. We are going to lift the restrictions on the production of American energy. This will produce more than $20 trillion in job-creating economic activity over the next four decades. My opponent, on the other hand, wants to put the great miners and steelworkers of our country out of work and out of business. That will never happen with Donald J trump as president. Our steelworkers and are miners are going back to work again. With these new economic policies, trillions of dollars will start flowing into our country. This new wealth will improve the quality of life for all Americans. We will build the roads, highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, and the railways of our tomorrow. This, in turn, will create millions of more jobs. We will rescue kids from failing schools by helping their parents send them to a safe school of their choice. My opponent would rather protect education bureaucrats than serve American children. That is what she is doing and that is what she has done. We will repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare. You will be able to choose your own doctor again. And we will fix TSA at the airports, which is a total disaster. Thank you. We are going to work with all of our students who are drowning in debt to take the pressure off these young people just starting out in their adult lives. Tremendous problems. We will completely rebuild our depleted military. And the countries that we protecting at a massive cost to us will be asked to pay their fair share. We will take care of our great veterans like they have never been taken care of before. My just-released 10 point plan has received tremendous better support. We will guarantee those who serve this country will be able to visit the doctor or hospital of their choice without waiting five days in a line and dying. My opponent dismissed the VA scandal, one more sign of how out of touch she really is. We are going to ask every department head and government to provide a list of wasteful spending projects that we can eliminate in my first 100 days. The politicians have talked about this for years, but I'm going to do it. We are also going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold our laws and our constitution. The replacement of our beloved Justice Scalia will be a person of similar views, principles and judicial philosophies. Very important. This will be one of the most important issues decided by this election. My opponent wants to essentially abolish the 2nd Amendment. I, on the other hand, received the early and strong endorsement of the National Rifle Association. And will protect the right of all Americans to keep their families safe. At this moment, I would like to thank the evangelical community because, I will tell you what, the support they have given me — and I'm not sure I totally deserve it — has been so amazing. And has been such a big reason I'm here tonight. They have much to contribute to our policies. Yet our laws prevent you from speaking your mind from your own pulpits. An amendment, pushed by Lyndon Johnson, many years ago, threatens religious institutions with a loss of their tax-exempt status if they openly advocate their political views. Their voice has been taken away. I will work hard to repeal that language and to protect free speech for all Americans. We can accomplish these great things and so much more. All we need to do is start believing in ourselves a in our country again. Start believing. It is time to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before. In this journey, I'm so lucky to have at my side my wife Melania and my wonderful children Don, Ivanka, Eric, Tiffany, and Barron: You will always be my greatest source of pride and joy. And by the way, Melania and Ivanka, did they do a job? My dad, Fred Trump, was the smartest and hardest working man I ever knew. I wonder sometimes what he'd say if he were here to see this tonight. It's because of him that I learned, from my youngest age, to respect the dignity of work and the dignity of working people. He was a guy most comfortable in the company of bricklayers, carpenters, and electricians and I have a lot of that in me also. I love those people. Then there's my mother, Mary. She was strong, but also warm and fair-minded. She was a truly great mother. She was also one of the most honest and charitable people I have ever known, and a great, great judge of character. She could pick them out from anywhere. To my sisters, Mary Anne and Elizabeth, my brother Robert and my late brother Fred, I will always give you my love. You are most special to me. I have loved my life in business. But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country, to go to work for you. It is time to deliver a victory for the American people. We don't win anymore, but we are going to start winning again. But to do that, we must break free from the petty politics of the past. America is a nation of believers, dreamers, and strivers that is being led by a group of censors, critics, and cynics. Remember: All of the people telling you you can't have the country you want, are the same people, that would not stand, I mean they said Trump does not have a chance of being here tonight, not a chance, the same people. We love defeating those people, don't we? Love it. No longer can we rely on those same people. In the media and politics who, will say anything to keep a rigged system in place. Instead, we must choose to believe in America. History is watching us now. It's we don't have much time. We don't have much time. It's waiting to see if we will rise to the occasion, and if we will show the whole world that America is still free and independent and strong. I am asking for your support tonight so that I can be year champion in the White House. And I will be a champion.Your champion. My opponent asks her supporters to recite a three-word loyalty pledge. It reads: 'I'm with her.' I choose to recite a different pledge. My pledge reads: 'I'm with you the American people.' I am your voice. So to every parent who dreams for their child, and every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight: I'm with you, and I will fight for you, and I will win for you. To all Americans tonight, in all our cities and towns, I make this promise: We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again! God bless you and goodnight! I love you! Thank you, Phoenix. I am so glad to be back in Arizona, a state that has a very special place in my heart. I love the people of Arizona and, together, we are going to win the White House in November.   Sponsored Content Sponsored Links by Tonight is not going to be a normal rally speech. Instead, I am going to deliver a detailed policy address on one of the greatest challenges facing our country today: immigration. I have just landed having returned from a very important and special meeting with the President of Mexico – a man I like and respect very much, and a man who truly loves his country. Just like I am a man who loves the United States. We agreed on the importance of ending the illegal flow of drugs, cash, guns and people across our border, and to put the cartels out of business. We also discussed the great contributions of Mexican-American citizens to our two countries, my love for the people of Mexico, and the close friendship between our two nations. It was a thoughtful and substantive conversation. This is the first of what I expect will be many conversations in a Trump Administration about creating a new relationship between our two countries. But to fix our immigration system, we must change our leadership in Washington. There is no other way. The truth is, our immigration system is worse than anyone realizes. But the facts aren’t known because the media won’t report on them, the politicians won’t talk about them, and the special interests spend a lot of money trying to cover them up. Today you will get the truth. The fundamental problem with the immigration system in our country is that it serves the needs of wealthy donors, political activists and powerful politicians. Let me tell you who it doesn’t serve: it doesn’t serve you, the American people. When politicians talk about immigration reform, they usually mean the following: amnesty, open borders, and lower wages. Immigration reform should mean something else entirely: it should mean improvements to our laws and policies to make life better for American citizens. But if we are going to make our immigration system work, then we have to be prepared to talk honestly and without fear about these important and sensitive issues. For instance, we have to listen to the concerns that working people have over the record pace of immigration and its impact on their jobs, wages, housing, schools, tax bills, and living conditions. These are valid concerns, expressed by decent and patriotic citizens from all backgrounds. We also have to be honest about the fact that not everyone who seeks to join our country will be able to successfully assimilate. It is our right as a sovereign nation to choose immigrants that we think are the likeliest to thrive and flourish here. Then there is the issue of security. Countless innocent American lives have been stolen because our politicians have failed in their duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws. I have met with many of the parents who lost their children to Sanctuary Cities and open borders. They will be joining me on the stage later today. Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this Administration. This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody, and then was released into a U.S. community under the policies of this White House. He was released again after the crime, and is now at large. Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0, top of her class, the day before. Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open borders policies was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21 year-old convenience store clerk in Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary who had also been released from Federal Custody. Another victim is Kate Steinle, gunned down in the Sanctuary City of San Francisco by an illegal immigrant deported five previous times. Then there is the case of 90 year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records who did not meet the Obama Administration’s priorities for removal. In California, a 64 year-old Air Force Veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions, but was never deported. A 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office found that illegal immigrants and other non-citizens in our prisons and jails together had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their names. On top of that, illegal immigration costs our country more than $113 billion dollars a year. For the money we are going to spend on illegal immigration over the next ten years, we could provide one million at-risk students with a school voucher. While there are many illegal immigrants in our country who are good people, this doesn’t change the fact that most illegal immigrants are lower-skilled workers with less education who compete directly against vulnerable American workers, and that these illegal workers draw much more out from the system than they will ever pay in. But these facts are never reported. Instead, the media and my opponent discuss one thing, and only this one thing: the needs of people living here illegally. The truth is, the central issue is not the needs of the 11 million illegal immigrants – or however many there may be. That has never been the central issue. It will never be the central issue. Anyone who tells you that the core issue is the needs of those living here illegally has simply spent too much time in Washington. Only out of touch media elites think the biggest problem facing American society today is that there are 11 million illegal immigrants who don’t have legal status. To all the politicians, donors and special interests, hear these words from me today: there is only one core issue in the immigration debate and it is this: the well-being of the American people. Nothing even comes a close second. Hillary Clinton, for instance, talks constantly about her fears that families will be separated. But she’s not talking about the American families who have been permanently separated from their loved ones because of a preventable death. No, she’s only talking about families who came here in violation of the law. We will treat everyone living or residing in our country with dignity. We will be fair, just and compassionate to all. But our greatest compassion must be for American citizens. President Obama and Hillary Clinton have engaged in gross dereliction of duty by surrendering the safety of the American people to open borders. President Obama and Hillary Clinton support Sanctuary Cities, they support catch-and-release on the border, they support visa overstays, they support the release of dangerous criminals from detention – and they support unconstitutional executive amnesty. Hillary Clinton has pledged amnesty in her first 100 days, and her plan will provide Obamacare, Social Security and Medicare for illegal immigrants – breaking the federal budget. On top of that, she promises uncontrolled low-skilled immigration that continues to reduce jobs and wages for American workers, especially African-American and Hispanic workers. This includes her plan to bring in 620,000 new refugees in a four-year term. Now that you’ve heard about Hillary Clinton’s plan – about which she has not answered a single substantive question – let me tell you about my plan. While Hillary Clinton meets only with donors and lobbyists, my plan was crafted with the input from federal immigration officers, along with top immigration experts who represent workers, not corporations. I also worked with lawmakers who’ve led on this issue on behalf of American citizens for many years, and most importantly, I’ve met with the people directly impacted by these policies. Number One: We will build a wall along the Southern Border. On day one, we will begin working on an impenetrable physical wall on the southern border. We will use the best technology, including above-and below-ground sensors, towers, aerial surveillance and manpower to supplement the wall, find and dislocate tunnels, and keep out the criminal cartels, and Mexico will pay for the wall. Number Two: End Catch-And-Release Under my Administration, anyone who illegally crosses the border will be detained until they are removed out of our country. Number Three: Zero tolerance for criminal aliens. According to federal data, there are at least 2 million criminal aliens now inside the country. We will begin moving them out day one, in joint operations with local, state and federal law enforcement. Beyond the 2 million, there are a vast number of additional criminal illegal immigrants who have fled or evaded justice. But their days on the run will soon be over. They go out, and they go out fast. Moving forward, we will issue detainers for all illegal immigrants who are arrested for any crime whatsoever, and they will be placed into immediate removal proceedings. We will terminate the Obama Administration’s deadly non-enforcement policies that allow thousands of criminal aliens to freely roam our streets. Since 2013 alone, the Obama Administration has allowed 300,000 criminal aliens to return back into U.S. communities – these are individuals encountered or identified by ICE but who not detained or processed for deportation. My plan also includes cooperating closely with local jurisdictions to remove criminal aliens. We will restore the highly successful Secure Communities program. We will expand and revitalize the popular 287(g) partnerships, which will help to identify hundreds of thousands of deportable aliens in local jails. Both of these programs have been recklessly gutted by this Administration. This is yet one more area where we are headed in a totally opposite direction. On my first day in office, I am also going to ask Congress to pass “Kate’s Law” – named for Kate Steinle – to ensure that criminal aliens convicted of illegal reentry face receive strong mandatory minimum sentences. Another reform I am proposing is the passage of legislation named for Detective Michael Davis and Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver, two law enforcement officers recently killed by a previously-deported illegal immigrant. The Davis-Oliver bill will enhance cooperation with state and local authorities to ensure that criminal immigrants and terrorists are swiftly identified and removed. We are going to triple the number of ICE deportation officers. Within ICE, I am going to create a new special Deportation Task Force, focused on identifying and removing quickly the most dangerous criminal illegal immigrants in America who have evaded justice. The local police know who every one of these criminals are. There’s no great mystery to it, they’ve put up with it for years. And now, finally, we will turn the tables and law enforcement will be allowed to clear up this dangerous and threatening mess. We’re also going to hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents, and put more of them on the border, instead of behind desks. We will expand the number of Border Patrol Stations. I’ve had a chance to spend time with these incredible law enforcement officers, and I want to take a moment to thank them. The endorsement I’ve received from the Border Patrol officers means more to me than I can say. Number Four: Block Funding For Sanctuary Cities We will end the Sanctuary Cities that have resulted in so many needless deaths. Cities that refuse to cooperate with federal authorities will not receive taxpayer dollars, and we will work with Congress to pass legislation to protect those jurisdictions that do assist federal authorities. Number Five: Cancel Unconstitutional Executive Orders & Enforce All Immigration Laws We will immediately terminate President Obama’s two illegal executive amnesties, in which he defied federal law and the constitution to give amnesty to approximately 5 million illegal immigrants. Hillary Clinton has pledged to keep both of these illegal amnesty programs – including the 2014 amnesty which has been blocked by the Supreme Court. Clinton has also pledged to add a third executive amnesty. Clinton’s plan would trigger a Constitutional Crisis unlike almost anything we have ever seen before. In effect, she would be abolishing the lawmaking powers of Congress in order to write her own laws from the Oval Office. In a Trump Administration, all immigration laws will be enforced. As with any law enforcement activity, we will set priorities. But, unlike this Administration, no one will be immune or exempt from enforcement – and ICE and Border Patrol officers will be allowed to do their jobs. Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation – that is what it means to have laws and to have a country. Our enforcement priorities will include removing criminals, gang members, security threats, visa overstays, public charges – that is, those relying on public welfare or straining the safety net, along with millions of recent illegal arrivals and overstays who’ve come here under the current Administration. Number Six: We Are Going To Suspend The Issuance Of Visas To Any Place Where Adequate Screening Cannot Occur According to data provided to the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest, between 9/11 and the end of 2014, at least 380 foreign-born individuals were convicted in terror cases inside the United States. The number is likely higher, but the Administration refuses to provide this information to Congress. As soon as I enter office, I am going to ask the Department of State, Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to begin a comprehensive review of these cases in order to develop a list of regions and countries from which immigration must be suspended until proven and effective vetting mechanisms can be put into place. Countries from which immigration will be suspended would include places like Syria and Libya. For the price of resettling 1 refugee in the United States, 12 could be resettled in a safe zone in their home region. Another reform involves new screening tests for all applicants that include an ideological certification to make sure that those we are admitting to our country share our values and love our people. For instance, in the last five years, we’ve admitted nearly 100,000 immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan – in these two countries, according to Pew research, a majority of residents say that the barbaric practice of honor killings against women are often or sometimes justified. Applicants will be asked for their views about honor killings, about respect for women and gays and minorities, attitudes on Radical Islam, and many other topics as part of the vetting procedure. Number Seven: We will ensure that other countries take their people back when we order them deported  There are at least 23 countries that refuse to take their people back after they have been ordered to leave the United States, including large numbers of violent criminals. Due to a Supreme Court decision, if these violent offenders cannot be sent home, our law enforcement officers have to release them into U.S. communities. There are often terrible consequences, such as Casey Chadwick’s tragic death in Connecticut just last year. Yet, despite the existence of a law that commands the Secretary of State to stop issuing visas to these countries, Secretary Hillary Clinton ignored this law and refused to use this powerful tool to bring nations into compliance. The result of her misconduct was the release of thousands of dangerous criminal aliens who should have been sent home. According to a report from the Boston Globe, from the year 2008 through 2014, nearly 13,000 criminal aliens were released back into U.S. communities because their home countries would not take them back. Many of these 13,000 releases occurred on Hillary Clinton’s watch – she had the power and the duty to stop it cold and she didn’t do it. Those released include individuals convicted of killings, sexual assault and some of the most heinous crimes imaginable, who went on to reoffend at a very high rate. Number Eight: We will finally complete the biometric entry-exit visa tracking system. For years, Congress has required a biometric entry-exit visa tracking system, but it has never been completed. In my Administration, we will ensure that this system is in place at all land, air, and sea ports. Approximately half of new illegal immigrants came on temporary visas and then never left. Beyond violating our laws, visa overstays pose a substantial threat to national security. The 9/11 Commission said that this tracking system should be a high priority and “would have assisted law enforcement and intelligence officials in August and September 2001 in conducting a search for two of the 9/11 hijackers that were in the U.S. on expired visas.” Last year alone, nearly a half a million individuals overstayed their temporary visas. Removing visa overstays will be a top priority of my Administration. If people around the world believe they can just come on a temporary visa and never leave – the Obama-Clinton policy – then we have a completely open border. We must send the message that visa expiration dates will be strongly enforced. Number Nine: We will turn off the jobs and benefits magnet. We will ensure that E-Verify is used to the fullest extent possible under existing law, and will work with Congress to strengthen and expand its use across the country. Immigration law doesn’t exist just for the purpose of keeping out criminals. It exists to protect all aspects of American life – the worksite, the welfare office, the education system and much else. That is why immigration limits are established in the first place. If we only enforce the laws against crime, then we have an open border to the entire world. I will enforce all of our immigration laws. The same goes for government benefits. The Center for Immigration Studies estimates that 62 percent of households headed by illegal immigrants used some form of cash or non-cash welfare programs, like food stamps or housing assistance. This directly violates the federal public charge law designed to protect the U.S. treasury. Those who abuse our welfare system will be priorities for removal. Number 10: We will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers We’ve admitted 59 million immigrants to the United States between 1965 and 2015. Many of these arrivals have greatly enriched our country. But we now have an obligation to them, and to their children, to control future immigration – as we have following previous immigration waves – to ensure assimilation, integration and upward mobility. Within just a few years immigration as a share of national population is set to break all historical records. The time has come for a new immigration commission to develop a new set of reforms to our legal immigration system in order to achieve the following goals: To keep immigration levels, measured by population share, within historical norms To select immigrants based on their likelihood of success in U.S. society, and their ability to be financially self-sufficient. We need a system that serves our needs – remember, it’s America First. To choose immigrants based on merit, skill and proficiency And to establish new immigration controls to boost wages and to ensure that open jobs are offered to American workers first. We want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally and properly-vetted, and in a manner that serves the national interest. We’ve been living under outdated immigration rules from decades ago. To avoid this happening in the future, I believe we should sunset our visa laws so that Congress is forced to periodically revise and revisit them. We wouldn’t put our entire federal budget on autopilot for decades, so why should we do the same for immigration? Let’s talk about the big picture These ten steps, if rigorously followed and enforced, will accomplish more in a matter of months than our politicians have accomplished on this issue in the last fifty years. Because I am not a politician, because I am not beholden to any special interest, I will get this done for you and your family. We will accomplish all of the steps outlined above, and when we do, peace and law and justice and prosperity will prevail. Crime will go down, border crossings will plummet, gangs will disappear, and welfare use will decrease. We will have a peace dividend to spend on rebuilding America, beginning with our inner cities. For those here today illegally who are seeking legal status, they will have one route and only one route: to return home and apply for re-entry under the rules of the new legal immigration system that I have outlined above. Those who have left to seek entry under this new system will not be awarded surplus visas, but will have to enter under the immigration caps or limits that will be established. ‘. There will be no amnesty. Our message to the world will be this: you cannot obtain legal status, or become a citizen of the United States, by illegally entering our country. This declaration alone will help stop the crisis of illegal crossings and illegal overstays. People will know that you can’t just smuggle in, hunker down, and wait to be legalized. Those days are over. In several years, when we have accomplished all of our enforcement goals – and truly ended illegal immigration for good, including the construction of a great wall, and the establishment of our new lawful immigration system – then and only then will we be in a position to consider the appropriate disposition of those who remain. That discussion can only take place in an atmosphere in which illegal immigration is a memory of the past, allowing us to weigh the different options available based on the new circumstances at the time. Right now, however, we are in the middle of a jobs crisis, a border crisis, and a terrorism crisis. All energies of the federal government and the legislative process must now be focused on immigration security. That is the only conversation we should be having at this time. Whether it’s dangerous materials being smuggled across the border, terrorists entering on visas, or Americans losing their jobs to foreign workers, these are the problems we must now focus on fixing – and the media needs to begin demanding to hear Hillary Clinton’s answer on how her policies will affect Americans and their security. These are matters of life-and-death for our country and its people, and we deserve answers from Hillary Clinton. What we do know, despite the total lack of media curiosity, is that Hillary Clinton promises a radical amnesty combined with a radical reduction in immigration enforcement. The result will be millions more illegal immigrants, thousands more violent crimes, and total chaos and lawlessness. This election is our last chance to secure the border, stop illegal immigration, and reform our laws to make your life better. This is it. We won’t get another opportunity – it will be too late. So I want to remind everyone what we are fighting for – and who we are fighting for. So I am going to ask all the Angel Moms to come join me on the stage right now. Now is the time for these voices to be heard. Now is the time for the media to begin asking questions on their behalf. Now is the time for all of us, as one country, Democrat and Republican, liberal and conservative, to band together to deliver justice and safety and security for all Americans. Let’s fix this problem. Let’s secure our border. Let’s stop the drugs and the crime. Let’s protect our Social Security and Medicare. And let’s get unemployed Americans off of welfare and back to work in their own country. Together, we can save American lives, American jobs, and American futures. Together, we can save America itself. Join me in this mission to Make America Great Again. Thank you, and God Bless you all! The crowds we’re getting — I’m the messenger, but I’ll tell you what, the message is the right message. We’re tired of incompetence. We’re tired of not taking care of our military. We’re tired of not taking care of our vets, who are being taken care of very poorly. We’re tired of so many different things. And this is what happens. So, our mayor, my friend, Rudy Giuliani just walks, I’m telling you, he said, “I don’t believe this. This is incredible.” And what he hasn’t seen, and your governor, by the way, who’s a great guy. And he’s now seeing it, they’re walking outside because there are thousands of people outside that can’t get in. I said, “Rudy, you think this is bad, go take a look outside.” So I just want to thank Pat and Rudy and I want to thank everybody for being here. And we are going to have a good time. We love North Carolina. We love North Carolina. We did really well in the primaries if you remember, and I hear we are doing really well now. We have to win. That November 8 day is so important. You know, I bring things up like the judges right? Supreme Court Justices, we have to get – you know, you could have as many as four? I guess it’s a scenario where this president could pick five Supreme Court Justices. And if you pick two that are left, left, left, it’s going to be a disaster for our country. Your Second Amendment, the National Rifle Association endorsed and they endorsed me early, a long time ago. And they’re great people, Wayne and Chris, they are great people. But if you – if you do something with these – I’ll tell you what, Justices right now, you lost a great one with Scalia. We want to replace with Justices very much like Justice Scalia and that’s going to happen. It is so important. So if for no other reason, I mean it’s such an important – it’s one of the most important elections for a lot of reasons, not just that but for a lot of reasons. But that’s so obviously, because for whatever reason, they say this could be the presidency. This next four years is where you will pick more Supreme Court Justices than anybody has every had the opportunity to do . Believe me, I’ll make you very proud of those Justices everyday. So we had an incident a few days ago with the $400 million – all cash, right — $400 million in all cash, anybody know what that looks like? That’s a lot of cash. That’s a lot of case. And honestly, it’s so sad. Think of it, going to Iran, a terrorist state. Now I happen to think they have plenty of money, we’ve given then $150 billion, so the $400 million is just, you know – I happen to think it goes into their accounts in Switzerland personally. Now, a lot of people say, “no, no, it’s used for terror,” and they use it for terror because it’s the number one terror funder – not even close. But I also think that when you have $400 million in cash, different denominations, do you see the size of this? I guess they did release the pictures after all. They released pictures. And interesting I’ll tell you, I sort of think it goes into bank accounts, right? You know, I sort of think they take it, they probably use some for this, some for that. You can do a lot of things. And Obama said that he did it because we don’t have a working account with Iran. Do you believe that? How long does it take to set up an account? Right? You don’t have a working account, you set up an account, right? You set up an account and it takes about – look, what’s going on in this country – folks, folks, what’s going on in this country is insane. And we have people running our country that don’t know what they’re doing, they’re grossly incompetent, and it’s time. We have to make change, real change. Not Obama change, we have to make change. Whether it’s Bergdahl (ph), we get Bergdahl (ph) who was a traitor, and they get five of the greatest killers that they’ve wanted for eight years. We get Bergdahl — I call it the five for one trade. For the Iran deal, where we get nothing, we get nothing. They get ultimately, they have the path, beautiful path, they’ll get way, way earlier than that. They’ll get nuclear weapons, so if you get Trump you’re going to see a lot of changes to that deal. That’ll happen fast. You’re going to see some big changes and what I really — I mean, I saw where President Obama said that the $400 million in cash was not, had nothing to do with the release of the hostages, right? It really doesn’t work, does it? Does it? I mean, remember Obamacare, “you’re going to keep your doctor, you’re going to keep your plan, over and over again, you’re going to keep your doctor.” It was a lie. And in fact, if he didn’t make the lie, he would have never gotten it approved because most Democrats, many of the Democrats didn’t want to do it. It was only that, that got them to sign it and to approve it. And it was a lie. And the $400 million, and from what the rumor is and from what the reports are, the hostages couldn’t leave the airport until this other plane arrived. They don’t know why, but I think we all have a pretty good reason why. It was all a big lie, it was all a big lie. And it’s so sad to see, and let me tell you, Hillary Clinton is going to be four more years of Obama, but maybe worse. Maybe worse. There’ll be four more years. Four more years of ISIS, four more years of high taxes. You know yesterday I had a — at a big event, really. It turned out to be a very big event in Detroit and… Good event, very good. And we got wonderful reviews and a lot of good comments. But the thing I’m doing, I’m cutting taxes big league. Especially for the middle class and especially for businesses. Because businesses are dying and that means small businesses, businesses period. Businesses are leaving our country like they’ve never left before. They’re going all over. They’re going to Mexico, that I can tell you. Mexico is like the eighth wonder of the world. You know I’ve been telling a story, a friend of mine, good friend of mine, good guy. He builds plants, he builds plants for cars, for computers, you know where they make them. Massive plants. And I said to him, how are you doing? And he’s worked in North Carolina, by the way. I said to him, how are you doing? He said phenomenal. He’s like, “I think the biggest in the world at this -” that’s what he does. Great guy. I said how’s it all going? He said, ‘you’ve got to see Mexico, Donald. It’s the eighth wonder of the world. What we’re building there is like, never has been built. We’ve never seen anything like it”. And I said, how are we doing in the United States? I’m more interested in that, OK? It’s OK I guess. Right? You know, America first, folks. America first. America. Right, America first. America first. We get a little tired of these deals where they actually put, and you know why, because of lobbyists and special interests and people representing and people wanting it to happen. It’s just not that they want other countries to benefit over us. There are reasons for it and you know, when I raise money, and I’m putting up a lot of money for my own campaign, I’m funding me. And I’m raising for the Republican party. And we’re getting a lot of money from the small donors. Remember two months ago? Well, I hadn’t started; I wanted to make sure I get the nomination before I start, right? Let me get the nomination, please. And then I took a lot of heat from the press, the world’s most dishonest people, by the way. Terrible. Terrible. Those cameras will not move and show how many people are in this auditorium. Those cameras — those cameras are not going on the move unless we have a protester, is there a protester up there in the quota (ph)? Any protesters? If we had a protester that’s the only time they move because they’re showing something that in their mind is a bad thing, so then they move. But I like that, I’ve always liked my protesters because the cameras show these massive crowds and people say wow, was that a big crowd. You know, I go home to my wife, I say how’s it going? She says darling, your speech was very good, were there many people there? I say yeah, about 7,000. That’s a small group. Its only confined — I mean you had to see outside. I felt so badly — I came up — I came up — thank you and I love you too. Who said that? Who said that, huh? Thank you, thank you. But I came up with Rudy from New York and we’re driving up and we’re going block after block after block the line. And I said are those people going to be able to get in? They said the place is already full. And Rudy just said man; I’ve never seen anything like that. Maybe a couple of days before an election, but this is what’s happening. Because of the fact we have a movement going, folks. Because people are so tired of them. They’re so tired of them. So — and by the way — and by the way, voter ID, watch with that. Watch with voter ID, why aren’t we having voter ID? In other words, I wanna vote, here’s my identification, I wanna vote, as opposed to somebody coming up and voting 15 times for Hillary. Well — and I will not tell you to vote 15 times. I will not tell you to do that, OK? You won’t vote 15 times. But people will, they’ll vote many times and how that could’ve happened , it’s unbelievable. Gnd the governor just told me that they’re going before the United States Supreme Court Justice Roberts and maybe they can get a stay. Let’s see what happens, OK? Let’s see what happens. That’s a very important thing. But I wrote a few things down and to me, so important — yes, darling thank you. Unstable Hillary lacks the judgment, now; Bernie Sanders said she lacks judgment, right? And nobody said anything about it, no problem. He said you lack judgment. And — during one of the debates, nobody said, it was fine. When I say it they say that’s terrible the way you talk. She does, she lacks judgment, she lacks temperament and I’m the one that used unfit many, many months ago. And now they’ve turned it around, use it on me, unfit? I’m unfit? That’s — that’s a first. But she lacks the temperament and the moral character to lead this country, its very simple. She really does. She’s a dangerous person who doesn’t tell the truth which has been proven very loudly. I’ve never seen a — I don’t think we’ve ever had greater proof of that, of anybody. And she has disregarded the lives of Americans — you see what’s happening — with what she has done with her server? And you know why she did that. So, I just look at this, and I said that if she gets elected, she will cause the destruction of this country from within. Remember that. Remember that. She will — she will allow people into our country that will do damage, they will do damage, folks. You look at what’s going on in the world — look at France; take a good look at France. I have friends that go to France. They used to love France. They say, no thank you. They don’t expect to be going back anytime for a long time. I have one friend, I said, how was your trip this year to France? He said, France isn’t France anymore. We’re not going. And so many people are saying that. Look at what’s going on with Germany. Look at what’s happening with Germany. Look at the crime; look at the problems. We have enough problems in our country right now. We don’t need additional problems, folks. We don’t need additional problems. And for all we know, this could be the great Trojan Horse. This could be. We don’t know who these people are. Now, they’re coming in through Obama. And I looked at a chart yesterday, and it’s like for years, it’s sort of like this, a little uptick. And the last number or period of time, it’s like, “Wah, wah, wah, wah.” There — I have never seen anything like it. They’re letting them in, and again, you can’t vet them. You don’t know where they come from. We don’t know — look at the damage that two people in San Bernardino, probably radicalized the guy — the woman coming in. Look at the damage in Orlando. Look at the damage that was done in Orlando by one wack job, one sick wack job. And you know what he was screaming? He’s screaming what they all scream. And we have to get smart, folks. We don’t need the problems — and we’ve already got those problems, just so you understand. Because they’re coming into the country, they’re being put where nobody even knows where they are. It’s like, if I were the enemy, I would say, I can’t believe they’re that stupid. They’re taking my people and they’re putting them all over the place, because you have great military right here. And our military… Our military cannot be beaten. But you know what could happen? When we don’t know where they are, where they’re coming, you’ve them all over the place. And folks, it’s some. You don’t need many; you don’t need many. One person in Orlando. Two people — look at in France, 130. Now, they have the strictest gun laws anywhere in the world, France, Paris. One hundred and thirty people killed, 130. And I’ve said 100 times, if this man or if this woman, or if that woman or man had a gun in Paris or in San Bernardino and the bullets were flying in the other direction, would have been a whole different story, folks. Would have been a whole different. For those — for those foolish people that say Second Amendment, would have been a whole different — and I’d go a step further. If these people, bad people, bad, sick, sick, sick people. If these people knew there were guns in the good guys hands, right, they probably wouldn’t have gone in in the first place, all right? All right? Gun free — what do you think of these gun- free zones? Do you know what a gun-free zone is? That’s like — they study where the gun-free zones — if they would have known you had guns, if they would have known that they were going to be shot at from the other side, it would have been a whole different story. Maybe it wouldn’t have even happened in the first place. So they better not come here. They better not. They better not. So recently a book came out a couple of weeks ago. A Secret Service agent made a statement because she said the other day she short-circuited. Hey, could you imagine if I said that “I short circuited”? They would be calling for my execution, — electric chair. They’d bring back the electric chair. It would be a whole different ball game if I said it, believe me. But the Secret Service agent said, “She simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office,” right? “From the bottom of my soul,” he said, “I know this to be true. Her leadership style, which is volcanic and impulsive, and she makes bad decisions. OK? Hey, you know, it’s one thing to make bad decisions. It’s another thing to be wacky and make bad decisions. She is disdainful of the rules set for everyone else and she hasn’t changed a bit. This is — that was the good thing. I couldn’t say the bad things. It was too much. Nobody would even — nobody would even believe it. You’ve got to see this book. Nobody would believe because it’s so terrible, so terrible. And she comes across like this woman — nice, easy — but she’s not. And — and she’s — listen — she’s not a leader, not a leader. And she is a liar. Hey, hey — 33,000 e-mails are gone. OK? 33,000 e-mails are gone. They’re gone. How do you get rid of 33,000 e-mails? Who sends 33,000 e-mails? I mean, 33 — do you know how many that is? I think that’s like 24 hours a day reading them or sending them, but it wouldn’t matter. For years, 33,000 e-mails are missing. And she’s so guilty. She’s so guilty. I think it’s a tremendous blot in our country. I really mean that. I think what happened over the last two weeks with respect to her, especially in light of the fact that General Petraeus and many others have suffered unbelievable consequences. I think it’s a tremendous blot on our country, a tremendous blot. Just remember that. But I just looked at this — the economic failures of Obama and Clinton, et cetera. Obama-Clinton economic policies have produced 1.2 percent economic growth, the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression. Now, this is, like, unbelievable — 1.2. Do you know China goes to 7 percent or 8 percent, it’s like a national catastrophe. Now, what they do is they cut their currency. They devalue their currency, and big league, and then all of our businesses continue to be drained out of the United States. Our money, our jobs. They make our product, they sell our product to us. No tax, no nothing, you devalue — see devaluing is sort of cheating. You know, it’s sort of like cheating. Now I have great relationships with China. I’ve done great business with China, I’ve done really well with China. I have these tenants, I sell condos, I own the Bank of America building in San Francisco with a group, a great group, thank you ma’am. Got to win — got to win North Carolina. Thank you. Thank you. But they — it’s cheating, it’s really cheating. And when I look at these trade deals — it’s so sad — where we lose $800 billion — billion with B — dollars a year on trade with China alone, it’s $400 billion and $500 billion and $505 billion. This is year in and year out, it’s actually amazing that our country keeps going. But what has happened is, we have people in the audience, in 18 years, they’re making less money now than they made 18 years ago, in real wages, 18. And in many cases, they’re working two and three jobs, OK? But they’re making less money now than they made 18 years ago. And those stats come right out, real wages. They’re working harder, they’re getting older. So in theory it’s supposed to be the other way, you know you work and you’re young, you don’t care. Get a little older, it’s like, oh by the way, how about me? I think I’m working harder too, if you want to know. I never worked this hard in my life. But I like it, I like it, I love it actually because I’ve met so many incredible people. You know I really got — thank you — I really got a tremendous understanding of this country. Because I’m going to places that I’ve heard about, I’ve known about, I’m stopping everywhere. And I see the carnage that NAFTA has caused, I see the carnage. It’s been horrible. I see upstate New York, I see North Carolina, but I see every state. You look at New England. New England got really whacked. New England got hit. You look at Ohio, what happened there, and still happening. By the way, this isn’t like it’s going to happen or it’s all over, it’s getting worse. You look at Ohio, you look at Michigan, what’s going on with the car plants being built in Mexico, is unbelievable. And more and more, you know they’re moving. We were just talking about the autoworkers yesterday. Where they’ve lost over 100,000 autoworkers in Michigan, the state of Michigan, which is our car capital and it’s really not the car capital anymore. Mexico will become the new car capital of the world in a very short period of time. No, think of it. And that’s only because we allow it to happen. And I like Mexico. And I respect the leaders of Mexico because they’re much smarter, they’re much street smarter, but they’re much smarter and more cunning than our leaders. But you have to see what’s going on. And one of the reasons I won Indiana was Bobby Knight, because he’s the best, he’s the greatest. But one of the reasons is that Carrier Air Conditioning let 1,400 people go and they’re building a plant in Mexico. And we’re not going to let it happen, folks. Look, right now as you stand here, you think you have great jobs. Companies are negotiating from North Carolina to move to Mexico, and other places. It’s not just Mexico, by the way. Made possible by our federal government, made possible by the people that enacted this suicidal pact. It’s a suicidal pact for our country. And you know I’ve watched for years. I was never a politician until 14 months ago. So I can’t believe I’m saying I’m a politician. Can’t believe it. But — but I’ve been watching for years and I’ve watched as — as the government tries to keep businesses from leaving our country and going to other countries. And I’ve seen low interest loans, I’ve seen zero interest loans, I’ve seen all sorts of subsidies. I get it. That stuff’s not gonna work, that’s not gonna work. What’s gonna work is — as an example, Carrier moves to Mexico and you wish him a lot of luck, good luck, have a nice plant. I hope my friend bills it (ph), right? And then you know what happens? When they make their air conditioners — and then think they’re gonna sell that air conditioner, people living in Indianapolis — where they come from — for a similar price. And they think they’re gonna sell it there and have no repercussions? With me, they have repercussions, OK? With me, they have repercussions. With me, we inform them that if you move, you’re gonna pay a 35 percent tax on every single air conditioner that pour across our now very secure borders. And two things are gonna happen, one of two things — one of two things are gonna happen. Number one, if you get them in time, they’re not moving. Throws it all off-balance, since they’re all off-kilter. Number one they’re not — now, nobody — people would say well, why doesn’t anybody use this? Why doesn’t anybody mention it? I’ll tell you why. Because they’re controlled by their lobbyists, they’re politicians. And Carrier goes out or whoever it might be this — I’m just using Carrier as an example. Its hundreds and thousands. Its thousands of company. And millions of jobs we’re talking about. I was looking at numbers — I’m not gonna repeat the numbers because they’ll say I was wrong, it can’t be that high, I couldn’t believe it was that high. But it’s thousands of companies and millions and millions of jobs. And you’d say why aren’t — like, why doesn’t somebody else say what Trump is saying? So I’m controlled by myself because I’m putting up my money, OK? I’m putting up my money. But… Although we raised, did you see $82 million last month, $82 million last month? And a lot of it — a lot of the money was the small donations which republicans never get. A lot of them — I think it averaged $61 a hit, $61 can you imagine that? The total that we raised and in fact, in May I told you I was taking heat because they said Donald Trump didn’t raise any money. And they told you why, right? I didn’t raise it because I didn’t know — I gotta make sure I got the nomination. If I didn’t get the nomination, I would’ve gone to Turnberry and played golf, OK? In Scotland. But you know what? I got the nomination so now I had a start. And we raised $51 million in June, right? A lot of it in small donations and we raised $82 million in July. People are going, even the haters back there, the people that truly hate Trump — they said, that’s amazing. So we’re doing all right. And people look, they want — they wanna hear this message. Because this is a message this is an important message. But when you say — and when you hear what I just said — you charge a tariff or a tax. And guess what? And people said why hasn’t the — why haven’t the politicians, they’re smart, why haven’t they done it? Because they’re controlled by people that work for many of these companies and they’re not gonna do it. Whether it’s donors or whether its special interests or lobbyists they control because they want it to happen. And honestly, I think it’s a total disgrace. I think it’s a total disgrace for the millions of jobs, and for the thousands and thousands of companies that have left our country. If I were here to speak to every one of those companies for five minutes — bye, bye. They were so quiet. You know, I like the Hillary protesters. You know why? They’re so nice and quiet. The Bernie protesters were brutal; they were tough. Right? The Hillary protesters had no spirit. Did you see that? She starts screaming and the guy walks up, “I’ll go.” The Bernie ones were — they had a lot more spirit. I think we’re going to get a lot of Bernie voters, if you want to know the truth. Because they do understand that trade is killing us. Trade. So, a few things, a few other facts I wrote, which I think are amazing. One is the 1.2 percent lowest in, you know, forget it. That’s not a recovery. It’s probably much — don’t forget, when they announced 1.2 percent, that means it’s lower. And 1.2 is starting to set records. The national debt — so, we’re up to almost $20 trillion — $20 trillion! The national debt under Obama has doubled. Think of it, doubled. Might be, I think by the time he gets out, it’s going to more than double, but again, we have to very accurate. Because I’ll say — they’ll say, well, it hasn’t quite doubled. Believe me, by the time he gets out it will have more than doubled. The national debt has doubled. And you know the bad part about that? You think if the national debt has doubled, our infrastructure would be great, our country would be in great shape. We’d have beautiful roads, beautiful highways. You see where like 50 percent of the bridges are in danger in this country. And the roadways are a mess. I have a friend, he’s in the trucking business. He said, you know, for years, he had no problem. Now he buys these big, beautiful trucks, and the wheels get wiped out because of the potholes on the highways and things that he never had. So, you think with all of that doubling of the national debt, you’d really think that we’d be in good shape from the infrastructure standpoint, right? We’re not. We’re in very bad shape. U.S. trade deficit, $800 — almost $800 billion. Nearly 24 million Americans in their prime earning years are out of the labor force, right? In the last seven years, another 14 million people have left the work force. Think of it. These are the real numbers, not the 5 percent nonsense. You know, you look for a job, you can’t find your job, you go home, you share, you go to your parents, you go to your friends, you do whatever. You gave up, and now you’re considered — statistically, you’re considered employed. Those people are not employed; these are great people. And there are plenty of them in here. I mean, we have great people. We have the most loyal people. We have the smartest people. You know, so many of my people, they’re so smart. They like to say, well, Trump, I don’t know if he’s got this right — let me tell you, we have the smartest people. We have the people that are the smartest, and the strongest, and the best and the hardest working. We have the smartest people. We’ll put I.Q.s among — some of us, we couldn’t say all of us, right — against any I.Q.s that we — we have to deal with, that I can tell you. I would love to do that. In the last seven years, 14 million. One in five American households do not have a single member in the workforce. Pretty bad. Homeownership — this is one that is amazing to me — today, homeownership is at its lowest rate in 51 years. So you own homes, I mean it always used to be the dream to own a home, right? The American home. Lowest that its been in so many years, 51 years. Nearly 12 million people and more Americans are dependent on food stamps and 2 million more Latino Americans live in poverty under Obama and Clinton — under Obama; because Clinton’s just gonna carry on. You know, I don’t know if you saw. I gave a massive tax decrease yesterday at regulations, we’re gonna get rid of so many of them. But Clinton is gonna double your taxes; she’s gonna double up your taxes. And she’s trying to say well, I don’t know like Trump’s way — she’s gonna double up your taxes. You’re gonna have massive tax increases is Clinton gets in. Enjoy — enjoy it folks, if that happens. Fifty eight percent of African American youth are not employed. How sad is that? American households are earning $4,000 less — listen to this one, today — than they were 16 years ago. Many workers are earning less than 1970 in real dollars. So 1970 — that’s a long time ago, right? They’re earning in real dollars less money. So under my plan, we’re gonna create millions of new and really good paying jobs. You know, it’s interesting because even the pro-Obama people say about the jobs that they’re bad jobs. I’ve heard it from many of the people. They’re trying to defend him. But they say they’re bad jobs, they’re not good jobs. The good jobs — the good jobs have left. But we’ll create millions of new good paying jobs but good jobs. That’s so important, that’s so important. Everyone’s taxes will go down. Hillary Clinton has supported tax increases on the middle class for her entire career. She’s voted for higher taxes, 235 times in the Senate. That’s all? I thought it was more than that, 235 times. I hope there’s not a decimal point in there or so, 23.5 times. But I don’t think there is — voted for higher taxes, 235 times in the Senate. Now, she’s planning another job killing — $1.3 trillion tax increase, that’s what her tax increase is gonna be, folks. Like you’re not paying enough, right? Her plan will tax many small business — businesses who are already in deep trouble out of business. Then we have — we will make — and this is so important, this was an Ivanka Trump, OK? My daughter, so great. So great. We’re gonna make childcare expenses tax deductible for working families. And just many, many other things. I mean, we’re gonna make some unbelievable changes and it’s — it’s so easy. Again, you know regulations — I’m traveling all over and I’m meeting with business owners — and beyond business owners, even people that work at the businesses, they’re being laid off because of it. Regulations; if I told you — and I’m so surprised, this is probably the biggest surprise — if you have a small business and I said, you can have one or the other, a major tax cut like we’re gonna — you know, we’re bringing it down to 15 percent from more than — much more than double that. But if I told you that you could have a massive tax decrease or really substantially — but in a real way — cut regulations — a hundred percent of the people I talk to would take the regulation, if you could only have one or the other. It’s amazing, its amazing. And that surprised me. Surprised you too? Surprised him, too. A hundred percent. I mean, everybody — businesses can’t form anymore, the tax — the regulatory burden is so incredible that you can’t form businesses — very hard — and businesses that are in existence are being put out of existence for regulations that don’t do anything. We want safety regulations, we want environmental regulations. We’re not, you know, people that don’t want these things. We have to have that. We want clear air, we want clean water. We want clear water. But — but… To do that — and there are certain things that you want to do, but to do that, you don’t have to destroy our country and destroy our businesses. So you know, I just wrote this down today. Hillary wants to raise taxes. It’s a comparison. I want to lower them. Hillary wants to expand regulations, which she does big league (ph). Can you believe that? I will reduce them very, very substantially. Could be as much as 70, 75 percent. Hillary wants to shut down energy production. I want to expand it. Lower electric — lower electric bills, folks. Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, and if she gets to pick… (CROWD BOOING) If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is. I don’t know. But — but I’ll tell you what. That will be a horrible day. If — if Hillary gets to put her judges — right now, we’re tied. You see what’s going on. XXX you see what’s going on? We tied because Scalia – this was not suppose to happen. Justice Scalia was going to be around for ten more years at least and this is what happens. That was a horrible thing. So now look at it. So Hillary essentially wants to abolish the Second Amendment. Now, speaking to the NRA folks – who are great – when you – when you — and I’ll tell you, they endorsed me. They endorsed me very early. My son’s a member. I’m a member. If you – we can add I think the National Rifle Association, we can add the Second Amendment to the Justices – they almost go – in a certain way, hand in hand. Now the Justices are going to do things that are so important and we have such great Justices, you saw my list of 11 that have been vetted and respected. And have gotten great. And they to a little equate – but if you don’t do the right thing, either you’re not going to have a Second Amendment or you’re not going to have much of it left. And you’re not going to be able to protect yourself, which you need. You know, when the bad guys burst into your house, they’re not looking about into Second Amendments, and, do I have the right to do this? OK, the bad guys aren’t going to be giving up their weapons. But the good people will say, “oh, well, that’s the law.” No, no, not going to happen, we can’t let it happen. We can’t let it happen. Hillary Clinton wants to have totally open borders where people flow into our country. Where they flow into our country, and they take your jobs, and they do lots of things. And I want people to come into our country but they have to do it through a process, they have to do it legally, right? So you have drugs pouring in. You have everything coming in. You know, in New Hampshire, a great state, they have a tremendous heroin problem. I said to them, we will stop the drugs from pouring in to our country from the Southern border. They’re going to stop. TRUMP: And by the way, we will build a wall. That’s legal. TRUMP: Walls do work. Walls do work. TRUMP: Now here’s one and you know — I mean she doesn’t look that way, but she is — Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. That’s what she does and look at the mess. So we’ve spent — you know for two years, for three years, I’ve been saying we spent $2 trillion, right, in Iraq, more now, I guess. Somebody actually said to me the other day that they were talking about four or five trillion in the Middle East. And I’m going to get the accurate number. They don’t know the accurate number, the truth is they have no idea. They have no idea what we’re doing. We’re sending equipment over, the enemies take it in. We sent over 2,300 humvees that are totally armor plated. They got stolen by the enemy, 2,300. I thought they meant like two or 23. Or 230 was too much, 2,300 humvees and they got stolen. They got taken by the enemy. You know, shot guns fired in the air, the ones we gave to the so-called allies, these great allies that we always pick, who end up being worse than the guys who we’re trying to get out. So, terrible. Hillary and President Obama refused to use the term radical Islamic terrorism. Big problem. Big problem. Hillary wants to release violent criminals and criminal offenders from prison, that’s wonderful, enjoy yourselves. I want to work with our police. Our police are so incredible, they’re not getting the respect they deserve. Not getting the respect they deserve. And we’re going to, in our country, restore law and order. We have to, we have to restore law and order. And the police are going to be careful and they’re going to be studied and they’re going to be — but we have to restore law and order. What happened in Dallas, where all of those people were shot down. Absolutely, absolutely for no reason. Viciously shot down, and so many others. I was with one of the police groups the other day. They’re endorsing me. And I said that was terrible in Dallas and they gave me a list of like, eight other states in the last short while where the same, smaller number, but the same thing was happening where police are being killed. We have to respect and cherish our police. School choice we want, common core we don’t want. We’ve got to get rid of common core, bring educational… And folks, and we have to re-negotiate with NAFTA. And by the way, going back to the wall, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. That I can tell you. Listen, you know these politicians, they don’t know me. They don’t understand me. And I am, I’m in a group of 50 people, these are real geniuses. These are 50 people that have been running our country forever and they said we can’t support Donald Trump. The reason they can’t, you know why, because I’m not going to hire these people, I don’t want these people. Take a look. Take a look at what these people — these are sort of like the people that have been involved with Washington, making decisions militarily on defense, on other things — take a look what has happened in our country. Our military is depleted, our vets aren’t taken care of. We can’t beat ISIS. Can you imagine General George Patton, who is right now spinning in his grave, the great General Douglas MacArthur — can you imagine — and I say, because we have so many military people, and this is such a military state and I love it. I love. But can you imagine them seeing that we can’t beat these 25 or 30,000 people, we can’t beat them? We’re fighting a political correct war. It’s a political correct war. I mean, you know what’s going on. You know what’s going on. These are people that chop off heads. These are people that, in steel cages, drop steel cages into the waters and drowned large numbers of people. These are people that buried people in the sand. We’ve got to knock them out. I was against the war in Iraq. We shouldn’t have been to the war in Iraq. It destabilized the Middle East and I said that was going to happen. But we shouldn’t have gotten out the way we got out. The way we got out was insane. And Obama gave a date, and he — and that’s how ISIS happened, folks. Hence, the birth of ISIS. Congratulations, Hillary Clinton. Congratulate — I mean, she — she should get — if I’m ISIS, I call her up and I give her the most valuable player award. OK? And I guarantee you with Libya, which was her baby, and all of the other mistakes she has made. Obama takes now, because obviously, for him, that’s the better alternative, all right? But he has been an incompetent president. He has done a horrible job. And I guarantee you that if he had it to it again — and he would only say this to his wife — but if he had it to do again, he would not have chosen Hillary Clinton to be his secretary of state, because she made so many horrible mistakes and cost so many lives. And I mean lives on both sides. I’m not just saying — I mean lives on both sides. She’s inept; she’s inept. And to think that she is even allowed to run for the presidency of the United States, when she deleted and got rid of 33,000 e-mails is an embarrassment to our country, and it always will be, OK? It always will be. So — so, I want to thank all of you for being here. Look, I’m going to be around, and we’re going to be coming to North Carolina a lot. Got to win it, very important. But — the people are great. My daughter-in-law comes from North Carolina. I’m here all the time. But — but people — the people are great. The military is great. We are going to make America great again. We’re going to start winning. We’re going to put America first. We’re going to make America safe again. But never, ever forget, we are going to make America great again. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. I’ll be back soon. Thank you. God bless you.